# Blog_PostI
## Graffiti Complaints in New York City: An Overview of 311 Data
### Background
##### Simply, Graffiti is defined as art that is painted on the wall or in public places. Some say that graffiti is colorful and beautiful, others say that it is a mess that makes town or city untidy and unmaintained. Mostly we observe graffities are more common in urban where more people and huge buildings are concentrated than the rural areas. Though graffiti artists may believe it enriches the beauty of city, the city administration believes that it makes city ugly. City dwellers themselves may have inconsistent perceptions of graffiti and may respond either way to it. So, graffiti has become an issue of debate: is it culture or crime?  In New York City, there is a record of resident complaints about graffiti. Drawing on the 311 data, this project aspires to visualize those complaints. 
### Research Questions
##### The general question of this project is:  How do the people of New York City complain about graffiti? The specific questions of this projects are as follows; i.    How are the Graffiti complaints made in the five boroughs?  ii.    Which agency received the most Graffiti complaints? iii. How were the complaints were filed within the agencies? iv.    Which month of the year has the most/ least Graffiti complaints? v. How were the complaints dispersed in five Boroughs? 
### Audience of the Project
##### As mentioned earlier, whether graffiti is culture or crime may be debatable from the cultural perspective but from 'rule of law' standpoint, it is a crime. New York City Graffiti Law clearly states, "….No person shall write, paint, or draw any inscription, figure or mark of any type on any public or private building or other structure or any other real or personal property owned, operated or maintained by a public benefit corporation, the city of New York or any agency or instrumentality thereof or by any person, firm, or corporation, or any personal property maintained on a city street or other city-owned property pursuant to a franchise, concession or revocable consent granted by the city, unless the express permission of the owner or operator of the property has been obtained…". (Source:http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/downloads/pdf/anti_graffiti/Combating_Graffiti.pdf) . Therefore, understanding and hearing the graffiti complaints is important to New York Police Department (NYPD) and Department of Sanitation New York (DSNY). Understanding the most graffiti-prone areas, most used public properties and the timing of the most complaints months, could help the concerned authorities take necessary action to discourage and control the graffiti arts. This visualization could be helpful to launch alternative programs to discourage graffiti arts and maintain the city's beauty. Conversely, artists and other who loves to research and read the graffiti could benefit by this visualization because they could get substantial information about the graffiti-prone areas, and when to look for graffiti. So that they could go and enjoy the graffiti.
### Sources of Data
##### The source of data is NYC Open Data. The graffiti complaints made in all five boroughs, organized form 2011 to present are fetched from '311 Service Request from 2011 to Present' data sources. Data is available at: (https://data.cityofnewyork.us/dataset/311-Service-Requests-From-2011/fpz8-jqf4). Graffiti, Agency name, Boroughs, Locations, Public Properties (Commercial, Residential and Public Spaces) and Incident Areas are some variables used in the visualization.
### Visualizations of the Data
##### Sketches of the data visualizations are presented below in chronological orders as research questions above; 
{% include BlogPostI.html %}

[Return to Homepage](https://abinojha.github.io/DataVis/)
