# Blog_Post 3
### Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of China, India, Russia, and the United States:                                      Visualizations of GDP, GDP Growth and GDP Per Capita (1997- 2016)
##### Abin OJha
### Introduction
##### The China, India, Russia, and the United States are the powerful countries of the present world. These four countries are powerful and stronger than other countries in term of land, population, economy, technology, and innovations. The term 'powerful countries' is used here because the reports of World Economic Forum (https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2017/03/worlds-biggest-economies-in-2017/), The American Interest (https://www.the-american-interest.com/2017/01/24/the-eight-great-powers-of-2017/), and the writings of Mead and Keeley (https://www.hudson.org/research/13270-the-eight-great-powers-of-2017), and other several articles advocated these countries as the powerful countries. Which is the most powerful country among these four might be the issue of debate and study, but it is unanimous these are the powerful countries in the contemporary world. After studying these articles about the powerful countries, I aspired to make a comparative study of the Gross Domestic Product and allied variables of these four countries over the past two decades. This visualization reviews the GDP and allied variables of the China, India, Russia, and the United States from 1997 to 2016.
##### 'GDP measures the value of goods and services produced in a given period. It measures production output in terms of market prices'. Generally, GDP is measured using the following formula; GDP= Consumption + Investment + Government Spending + Exports – Imports (Fioramonti,2013) .
##### GDP is the monetary value of Goods and services produced in a nation during a given time, usually one year. GDP growth rate is an important statistical measure adopted by the economist to evaluate, 'How fast the economy growing'? For example, whether the annual growth rate of GDP is 3 percent that means, the economy is 3 percent larger than it was in the previous year. (Brezina, 2014:4) . "GDP per capita (PPP based) is gross domestic product converted to international dollars using purchasing power parity rates and divided by total population"* . It is a measure of a country's wealth. measures; whether the average person richer in country A or in country B? GDP Per Capita (PPP**) also allows for the comparisons among countries with wide income disparities. 
##### Simply, increase in the volume of GDP and allied indicators indicates the economic growth and development of a nation. Being based on this simple and general theory, this work visualizes the GDP (Current US $), GDP Growth (Annual %) and GDP Per Capita Purchasing Power Parity (Current International $) of four countries China, India, Russia, and the United States in the last two decades. Statistical data required for the visualization is derived from the World Bank database. Details of data are presented in the sources of data section below.
###### Fioramonti, Lorenzo. (2013). Gross Domestic Problem: The Politics behind the World's Most Powerful Number. London: Zed Books Ltd.
###### Brezina, Corona. (2012). Real World Economics: Understand the Gross Domestic and the Gross National Product. New York: Rosen Publishing.
###### Source**: https://knoema.com/atlas/ranks/GDP-per-capita-based-on-PPP
###### PPP*: Purchasing power parity (PPP) is a neoclassical economic theory that states that the exchange rate between two countries is equal to the ratio of the currencies' respective purchasing power.
### Rationale of the Selection of a Topic
##### The China, India, Russia, and the United States are the powerful countries of the world. The study on the various issues such as the population, economy, technology, and military/ security of these countries are the interesting topics. In this piece of visualization, I seek to study and visualize some aspects of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of these four countries over the last two decades. 
##### It is expected that the visualization of some aspects of GDP would sketch the entire economic situation of these selected countries, other things remaining the same. This visualization includes: GDP (current US $), GDP Growth Rate (annual %) and GDP Per Capita PPP (international $).  These three aspects of GDP are selected assuming that the visualization of GDP (the current US $) displays the economic situation, GDP growth rate indicates the direction of the economy and GDP Per Capita presents the average income of the entire population.
### Research Questions
##### This visualization aspires to make a comparative study on GDP of four powerful countries of the world. The specific questions of this visualization are as follow; i) Which country achieved the highest average GDP (Current US $) over the last two decades? ii) How was the GDP growth rate (Annual %) of these four countries changed? ii) What was each year's GDP Per Capita?
### Audience of the Study
##### The audience of this visualization is all who interested to study the economic indicators these four powerful countries of the world. This visualization gives sketches as well as statistical values of Gross Domestic Product of China, India, Russia, and the United States of last two decades. This visualization might be of substantial importance to the students of economics and politics.
### Sources of Data
##### The World Bank's data is a source of data for this visualization.  The variables section consists of database, countries, series, and time.   From a list of 264 countries of the world, four countries China, India, Russia, and the United States were selected. Then, from the series; GDP (current US $), GDP Growth (Annual %) and GDP Per Capita PPP (Current International $) were chosen as per the objectives of the visualization and from time (availability year range 1960-2017), the year 1997 to 2017 were selected to make a study of last two decades. Then, from the download option, the excel sheet for the sorted data was downloaded. The data used in this visualization is available in the link below; http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators
### Visualizations of Data
##### The following visualizations are made based on the fetched data:
{% include Final_Portfolio.html %}
### Discussions and Findings
##### The general objective of this visualization is to display some aspects of GDP of the China, India, Russia, and the United States over the last two decades. Therefore, from the World Bank Database, the data for GDP, GDP Growth Rate, and GDP Per Capita, PPP from 1997 to 2016 were taken and visualized using simple statistical tools through Tableau Public. 
#### [A] Which country achieved the highest average GDP (Current US $) over the last two decades?
##### To visualize the GDP (current US $), simple bar diagram was chosen. The GDP values of all four countries from 1997-2016 were presented separately in bar diagrams to make visualization simple and clearly readable. Then each bar diagram is presented in the area graphs to visualize the trend of GDP over the years. This area graphs help audience to see how the GDP of these countries are increasing/decreasing over the last two decades. An average line is drawn in each area graphs that gives the average GDP of the last two decades. This is helpful to make a quick comparison of average GDP among or between these four countries. 
##### Statically, the United States has the highest GDP than other three countries. In 1997 the GDP of the United States was 8 Trillion and 608 Billion (in current USD) whereas China, Russia, and India had 961 Billion, 404 Billion and 410 Billion respectively. Similarly, in 2016, the GDP of the United States was 18 Trillion and 624 Billion whereas China, Russia and India had 11 Trillion 199 Billion, 1 Trillion and 283 Billion and 2 Trillion 263 Billion respectively. Data shows that the GDP of the United States, China, and India are increasing every year, but Russia has diminishing GDP after 2013.  The average GDP of the United States, China, Russia, and India are 13 Trillion 554 Billion, 4 Trillion 680 Billion, 1 Trillion 76 Billion and 1 Trillion and 151 Billion respectively. This data shows that the GDP of China is alarming, and the GDP of India is progressive. The GDP of the United States is ascending but the GDP of Russia is descending in the recent years. 
#### [B] How was the GDP growth rate (Annual %) of these four countries changed?
##### To visualize the GDP Growth (Annual %) simple bar diagram for each country is chosen and then it is also presented in a line graph to make a comparative study. It is amazing to note that the China and India have far higher GDP annual growth rate than the United States and Russia. The average GDP growth rate of China from 1997-2016 is 9.25% and India has 6.97% whereas during the same period Russia has 3.51% and the United States achieved only 2.34%. Among these four countries, GDP Growth (annual %) of the United States is far below than the China and India in the last two decades. During 1997-2016, the GDP growth of the China and India had never dropped to the negative but the GDP growth of Russia (1998: -5.30%, 2015: -2.83%, and 2016: -0.22%) and the United States (2008: -0.29% and 2009: -2.78%) had dropped to the negatives. China achieved the highest GDP growth of 14.23% in 2007, India achieved 10.26% in 2010, Russia achieved 10.00% in 2000 and the United States achieved the highest GDP growth of 4.09% in 2000. This visualization found that the GDP growth rate of China and India is far higher than Russia and the United States.
#### [C] What was each year's GDP Per Capita?
##### The GDP Per Capita Purchasing Power Parity (current International $) of the selected four countries are visualized in the Component Bar Chart. This diagram consists of bars which are sub-divided into two or more parts, and the length of the bar is proportional to the totals. The composite bar chart is chosen to visualize the GDP per capita because the sub-divisions of a bar could be a good option to present the data of all four countries in a single bar. This visualization is further presented in scatter plots that gives more clear understanding on how the GDP Per Capita changed over the years. The data on GDP per capita of all four countries are ascending every year since 1997. The GDP per capita of the United States is higher than the other three countries. Speaking statistically, the GDP Per Capita (PPP) of the United States, Russia, India, and China in 1997 were $31, 573.00, $5,697.00, $1,657.00, and $2,277.00 and in 2016 were $ $57,638.00, $24,789.00, $6,571.00, and 15,529.00 respectively.
### Conclusions
##### The project visualized the GDP of the four countries through Tableau public on the various charts. It studied simply, the GDP of the four countries from the year 1997 to 2016. The visualizations showed that the GDP (current US $) of the United States is greater than other three countries. It means that the United States has the largest economy among the four countries. Surprisingly, the GDP growth rate (annual %) of the United States is slower than that of China and India, and Russia's GDP growth rate in the recent year is in the negative trend. This indicates that the economy of the United States and Russia is contracting whereas the economy of China and India is booming each year. GDP Per Capita, PPP of all four countries are increasing every year. Conversely, the GDP Per Capita of the United States is greater than other three countries. It indicates that the average person in the United States is richer than the average person in India, Russia, and China.

[Return to Homepage](https://abinojha.github.io/DataVis/)
